The Apache Software Foundation


  The Apache Software Foundation


    Apache License, Version 2.0

  * Foundation </foundation/>
  * Projects <http://projects.apache.org>
  * People <http://people.apache.org>
  * Get Involved </foundation/getinvolved.html>
  * Download </dyn/closer.cgi>
  * Support Apache </foundation/sponsorship.html>

Home </> Â» Licenses </licenses/>

Apache License

Version 2.0, January 2004

http://www.apache.org/licenses/

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

*1. Definitions*.

"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and
distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the
copyright owner that is granting the License.

"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other
entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control
with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means
(i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management
of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of
fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii)
beneficial ownership of such entity.

"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising
permissions granted by this License.

"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
including but not limited to software source code, documentation source,
and configuration files.

"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not
limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and
conversions to other media types.

"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object
form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright
notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is
provided in the Appendix below).

"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original
version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or
Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor
for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or
Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For
the purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any form of
electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or its
representatives, including but not limited to communication on
electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue
tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for
the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding
communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in
writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on
behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
subsequently incorporated within the Work.

*2. Grant of Copyright License*. Subject to the terms and conditions of
this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright
license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display,
publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and such
Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

*3. Grant of Patent License*. Subject to the terms and conditions of
this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except
as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer
to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such
license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such
Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s)
alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which
such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation
against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a
lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within
the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then
any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work
shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

*4. Redistribution*. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work
or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the
following conditions:

 1.

    You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a
    copy of this License; and

 2.

    You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating
    that You changed the files; and

 3.

    You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You
    distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution
    notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices
    that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and

 4.

    If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
    distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
    include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within
    such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any
    part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the following
    places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the
    Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if
    provided along with the Derivative Works; or, within a display
    generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever such third-party
    notices normally appear. The contents of the NOTICE file are for
    informational purposes only and do not modify the License. You may
    add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that You
    distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the
    Work, provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be
    construed as modifying the License. You may add Your own copyright
    statement to Your modifications and may provide additional or
    different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or
    distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works
    as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the
    Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this License.

*5. Submission of Contributions*. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by
You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this
License, without any additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the
above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any
separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding
such Contributions.

*6. Trademarks*. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

*7. Disclaimer of Warranty*. Unless required by applicable law or agreed
to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides
its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS
OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation,
any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT,
MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely
responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or
redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your
exercise of permissions under this License.

*8. Limitation of Liability*. In no event and under no legal theory,
whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless
required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent
acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You
for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or
consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this
License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but
not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer
failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or
losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of
such damages.

*9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability*. While redistributing
the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and
charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other
liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License.
However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own
behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other
Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each
Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted
against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any such warranty
or additional liability.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS


  APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work

To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced
with your own identifying information. (Don't include the brackets!) The
text should be enclosed in the appropriate comment syntax for the file
format. We also recommend that a file or class name and description of
purpose be included on the same "printed page" as the copyright notice
for easier identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.


        Projects

  * HTTP Server <http://httpd.apache.org/>
  * Abdera <http://abdera.apache.org/>
  * Accumulo <http://accumulo.apache.org/>
  * ACE <http://ace.apache.org/>
  * ActiveMQ <http://activemq.apache.org/>
  * Ant <http://ant.apache.org/>
  * APR <http://apr.apache.org/>
  * Archiva <http://archiva.apache.org/>
  * Aries <http://aries.apache.org/>
  * Avro <http://avro.apache.org/>
  * Axis <http://axis.apache.org/>
  * Buildr <http://buildr.apache.org/>
  * BVal <http://bval.apache.org/>
  * Camel <http://camel.apache.org/>
  * Cassandra <http://cassandra.apache.org/>
  * Cayenne <http://cayenne.apache.org/>
  * Chemistry <http://chemistry.apache.org/>
  * Click <http://click.apache.org/>
  * Cocoon <http://cocoon.apache.org/>
  * Commons <http://commons.apache.org/>
  * Continuum <http://continuum.apache.org/>
  * CouchDB <http://couchdb.apache.org/>
  * Creadur <http://creadur.apache.org/>
  * CXF <http://cxf.apache.org/>
  * DB <http://db.apache.org/>
  * Deltacloud <http://deltacloud.apache.org/>
  * Directory <http://directory.apache.org/>
  * Empire-db <http://empire-db.apache.org/>
  * ESME <http://esme.apache.org/>
  * Felix <http://felix.apache.org/>
  * Forrest <http://forrest.apache.org/>
  * Geronimo <http://geronimo.apache.org/>
  * Gora <http://gora.apache.org/>
  * Gump <http://gump.apache.org/>
  * Hadoop <http://hadoop.apache.org/>
  * Hama <http://hama.apache.org/>
  * HBase <http://hbase.apache.org/>
  * Hive <http://hive.apache.org/>
  * HttpComponents <http://hc.apache.org/>
  * Jackrabbit <http://jackrabbit.apache.org/>
  * James <http://james.apache.org/>
  * Jena <http://jena.apache.org/>
  * JMeter <http://jmeter.apache.org/>
  * jUDDI <http://juddi.apache.org/>
  * Karaf <http://karaf.apache.org/>
  * Lenya <http://lenya.apache.org/>
  * Libcloud <http://libcloud.apache.org/>
  * Logging <http://logging.apache.org/>
  * Lucene <http://lucene.apache.org/>
  * Lucy <http://lucy.apache.org/>
  * Mahout <http://mahout.apache.org/>
  * Maven <http://maven.apache.org/>
  * MINA <http://mina.apache.org/>
  * MRUnit <http://mrunit.apache.org/>
  * MyFaces <http://myfaces.apache.org/>
  * Nutch <http://nutch.apache.org/>
  * ODE <http://ode.apache.org/>
  * OODT <http://oodt.apache.org/>
  * OFBiz <http://ofbiz.apache.org/>
  * OpenEJB <http://openejb.apache.org/>
  * OpenJPA <http://openjpa.apache.org/>
  * OpenNLP <http://opennlp.apache.org/>
  * OpenWebBeans <http://openwebbeans.apache.org/>
  * PDFBox <http://pdfbox.apache.org/>
  * Perl <http://perl.apache.org/>
  * Pig <http://pig.apache.org/>
  * Pivot <http://pivot.apache.org/>
  * POI <http://poi.apache.org/>
  * Portals <http://portals.apache.org/>
  * Qpid <http://qpid.apache.org/>
  * Rave <http://rave.apache.org/>
  * River <http://river.apache.org/>
  * Roller <http://roller.apache.org/>
  * Santuario <http://santuario.apache.org/>
  * ServiceMix <http://servicemix.apache.org/>
  * Shindig <http://shindig.apache.org/>
  * Shiro <http://shiro.apache.org/>
  * Sling <http://sling.apache.org/>
  * SpamAssassin <http://spamassassin.apache.org/>
  * STDCXX <http://stdcxx.apache.org/>
  * Sqoop <http://sqoop.apache.org/>
  * Struts <http://struts.apache.org/>
  * Subversion <http://subversion.apache.org/>
  * Synapse <http://synapse.apache.org/>
  * Tapestry <http://tapestry.apache.org/>
  * Tcl <http://tcl.apache.org/>
  * Thrift <http://thrift.apache.org/>
  * Tika <http://tika.apache.org>
  * Tiles <http://tiles.apache.org/>
  * Tomcat <http://tomcat.apache.org/>
  * Traffic Server <http://trafficserver.apache.org/>
  * Turbine <http://turbine.apache.org/>
  * Tuscany <http://tuscany.apache.org/>
  * UIMA <http://uima.apache.org/>
  * Velocity <http://velocity.apache.org/>
  * Web Services <http://ws.apache.org/>
  * Whirr <http://whirr.apache.org/>
  * Wicket <http://wicket.apache.org/>
  * Xalan <http://xalan.apache.org/>
  * Xerces <http://xerces.apache.org/>
  * XMLBeans <http://xmlbeans.apache.org/>
  * XML Graphics <http://xmlgraphics.apache.org/>
  * ZooKeeper <http://zookeeper.apache.org/>


        Foundation

  * FAQ </foundation/faq.html>
  * Licenses </licenses/>
  * Trademarks </foundation/marks/>
  * News </foundation/news.html>
  * Press Inquiries </press/>
  * Public Records </foundation/records/>
  * Mailing Lists </foundation/mailinglists.html>
  * Sponsorship </foundation/sponsorship.html>
  * Donations </foundation/contributing.html>
  * Buy Stuff </foundation/buy_stuff.html>
  * Thanks </foundation/thanks.html>
  * Contact </foundation/contact.html>


        Foundation Projects

  * Attic <http://attic.apache.org/>
  * Conferences </foundation/conferences.html>
  * Community Development <http://community.apache.org/>
  * Incubator <http://incubator.apache.org/>
  * Infrastructure </dev/>
  * Labs <http://labs.apache.org/>
  * Legal Affairs </legal/>
  * Public Relations </press/>
  * Security </security/>
  * Travel Assistance </travel/>


        Community

  * People <http://people.apache.org/>
  * Memorials </memorials/>
  * Feathercast <http://feathercast.org/>
  * Project Blogs <http://blogs.apache.org/>
  * PlanetApache <http://planet.apache.org/committers/>


        How It Works

  * Introduction </foundation/how-it-works.html>
  * Meritocracy </foundation/how-it-works.html#meritocracy>
  * Structure </foundation/how-it-works.html#structure>
  * Roles </foundation/how-it-works.html#roles>
  * Collaboration </foundation/how-it-works.html#management>
  * Incubator </foundation/how-it-works.html#incubator>
  * Other entities </foundation/how-it-works.html#other>
  * Glossary </foundation/glossary.html>
  * Voting </foundation/voting.html>

Copyright Â© 2012 The Apache Software Foundation, Licensed under the
Apache License, Version 2.0 <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>.
Apache and the Apache feather logo are trademarks of The Apache Software
Foundation.

